# Portfolio
Here you can find all documents relevant to my portfolio: a Small biography, my Resume, and case studies.

## Biography
Hi, my name is Joao Rebelo Pinto. This biography is an overview of my life path until now, and what led me to create a Data Analytics Portfolio.

I have always been a type of person that is in love with order and simplicity. In my living room, I prefer a clean minimalist look to a busy looking wall full of books and knick-knacks. a clean and organized desktop to something where you can't even see the background. a well spaced and good looking SQL query to a disorganized mess that is difficult to follow. But unfortunately, the world is not made of right angles and blank surfaces; it's a messy place, and that can sometimes feel chaotic. So imagine my hapiness when I found that there are so many people who dedicate their careers to finding order within that chaos. That is how I was introduced to the world of data analytics: to move within the world of data-driven decisions to find the answer to your questions.

If I was aware of this possibility when I was younger, I wonder if that would have had an influence in my career decisions. At 19 I had decided to enroll in a Bachelors degree for Cinema, Video and Multimedia Communication in my hometown (Lisbon), choosing to pursue my passion without any regard to what my future would look like. 4 years later, with a university diploma, 1 year of work experience in cinema post-production and nothing to lose, I decided to take a leap of faith: move to London with only a plane ticket and a room to stay in. At the time this was a decision that made sense to me as London is one of the world's capitals of post-production, I spoke English fluently and it wasn't too far from home in case of emergency. In a way, this was a data-driven decision, I just didn't know it at the time.

Fast forward 10 years into today. Now with a family and a very different perspective on the world, I feel like my career in the Film industry, although productive and fascinating, has come to an end. I have started looking for a new "home" career wise, and that's when the world of Data Analytics came in. With the help of the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate, I have realised how vast this field is, and that I'm particulary interested in the aspects of Data Engineering and the use of SQL and Python to clean, manipulate, and analyze data to answer any type of questions that may come my way.

Hopefully this has given you some insight into my path. I'm always free to connect and talk more, in case you are interested in any more details about my path.
